        IMPORTANT--READ CAREFULLY BEFORE DOWNLOADING THE ONLINE DATA

ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS RESEARCH INSTITUTE, INC. (ESRI), IS WILLING TO
LICENSE THE REQUESTED DATA TO YOU ONLY UPON THE CONDITION THAT YOU ACCEPT
ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CONTAINED IN THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT. PLEASE
READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CAREFULLY BEFORE DOWNLOADING THE ONLINE DATA.
BY DOWNLOADING THE ONLINE DATA, YOU ARE INDICATING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THE
ESRI DATA LICENSE AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS AS STATED, THEN ESRI IS UNWILLING TO LICENSE THE DATA TO YOU.

                        ESRI DATA LICENSE AGREEMENT

This is a license agreement, and not an agreement for sale, between the end
user (Licensee) and Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI),
a California corporation, with its principal place of business at 380 New
York Street, Redlands, California 92373-8100, USA. This ESRI Data License
Agreement (Agreement) gives Licensee certain limited rights to use the Data
and Related Materials. All rights not specifically granted in this
Agreement are reserved to ESRI.

Reservation of Ownership and Grant of License: ESRI and its licensor(s)
retain exclusive ownership of the copy of the Data and Related Materials
licensed under this Agreement and, hereby, grant to Licensee a personal,
nonexclusive, nontransferable license to use the Data and Related Materials
based on the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Licensee agrees to use
reasonable effort to protect the Data and Related Materials from
unauthorized use, reproduction, distribution, or publication.

Proprietary Rights and Copyright: Licensee acknowledges that the Data and
Related Materials contain proprietary and confidential property of ESRI and
its licensor(s). The Data and Related Materials are owned by ESRI and its
licensor(s) and are protected by United States copyright laws and
applicable international copyright treaties and/or conventions.

Permitted Uses:

   * Licensee may install the Data or portions of the Data onto permanent
     storage device(s) and reproduce a corresponding number of copies of
     the Related Materials for Licensee's own internal use.
   * Licensee may make only one (1) copy of the original Data for archival
     purposes unless the right to make additional copies is granted to
     Licensee in writing by ESRI.
   * Licensee may modify the Data and merge other data sets with the Data
     for Licensee's own internal use. The portions of the Data merged with
     other data sets will continue to be subject to the terms and
     conditions of this Agreement.
   * Licensee may use, copy, alter, modify, merge, reproduce, and/or create
     derivative works of the on-line documentation for Licensee's own
     internal use. The portions of the on-line documentation merged with
     other software, data, hard copy, and/or digital materials shall
     continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement
     and shall provide the following copyright attribution notice
     acknowledging ESRI's proprietary rights in the on-line documentation:
     "Portions of this document include intellectual property of ESRI and
     are used herein by permission. Copyright © 199_ Environmental Systems
     Research Institute, Inc. All Rights Reserved."
   * Licensee may use, copy, reproduce, remarket, resell, and/or
     redistribute the Data or any derived portion(s) of the Data in
     published hard-copy and/or in static, electronic (i.e., .gif, .jpeg,
     etc.) formats, provided that Licensee affixes a legend statement
     acknowledging ESRI as the source of the portion(s) of the Data
     displayed, printed, or plotted.

Uses Not Permitted:

   * Licensee shall not sell, rent, lease, sublicense, lend, assign,
     time-share, or transfer, in whole or in part, or provide unlicensed
     third parties access to the Data, Related Materials, any updates, or
     Licensee's rights under this Agreement.
   * Licensee shall not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the
     ESRI-compatible data format(s) in an attempt to duplicate the
     proprietary and copyright-protected ESRI data model(s) and/or export
     format(s).
   * Licensee shall not remarket, resell, and/or redistribute the Data or
     any derived portion(s) of the Data in its digital form to unlicensed
     third parties.
   * Licensee shall not remove or obscure any ESRI and/or licensor(s)
     copyright, proprietary, or trademark notices.

Redistribution Rights for Derived Digital Data Sets: At ESRI's sole option,
ESRI may grant a separate sublicense agreement, on a royalty fee basis,
with Licensees who wish to obtain redistribution rights for derived or
other value-added digital data sets in ESRI-compatible data format(s).
Please address your written proposals to Attn.: ESRI Data Manager,
Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc., 380 New York Street,
Redlands, CA 92373-8100, USA.

Term: The license granted by this Agreement shall commence upon Licensee's
receipt of the Data and Related Materials and shall continue until such
time that (1) Licensee elects to discontinue use of the Data and Related
Materials and terminates the Agreement or (2) ESRI terminates for
Licensee's material breach of this Agreement. Upon termination of this
Agreement in either instance, Licensee shall then return to ESRI the Data
and Related Materials. The parties hereby agree that all provisions that
operate to protect the rights of ESRI and its licensor(s) shall remain in
force should breach occur.

No Warranty: The Data are not warranted and Licensee expressly acknowledges
that the Data contain some nonconformities, defects, or errors. ESRI does
not warrant that the Data will meet Licensee's needs or expectations, that
the use of the Data will be uninterrupted, or that all nonconformities,
defects, or errors can or will be corrected. ESRI is not inviting reliance
on these data, and Licensee should always verify actual data.

THE DATA AND RELATED MATERIALS CONTAINED THEREIN ARE PROVIDED "AS IS,"
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Exclusive Remedy and Limitation of Liability: The ESRI and/or licensor(s)
entire liability and Licensee's exclusive remedy shall be to terminate the
Agreement upon Licensee returning the Data and Related Materials to ESRI
with a copy of Licensee's invoice/receipt and ESRI returning the license
fees paid to Licensee.

IN NO EVENT SHALL ESRI AND/OR ITS LICENSOR(S) BE LIABLE FOR COSTS OF
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, LOST PROFITS, LOST SALES OR
BUSINESS EXPENDITURES, INVESTMENTS, OR COMMITMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH ANY
BUSINESS, LOSS OF ANY GOODWILL, OR FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT OR USE OF
THE DATA AND RELATED MATERIALS, HOWEVER CAUSED, ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
AND WHETHER OR NOT ESRI AND/OR ITS LICENSOR(S) HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THESE LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING
ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.

Third Party Beneficiary: ESRI's licensor(s) has authorized ESRI to
(sub)distribute and (sub)license its data as incorporated into the Data and
Related Materials. As an intended third party beneficiary to this
Agreement, the ESRI licensor(s) is entitled to directly enforce in its own
name the rights and obligations undertaken by Licensee and to seek all
legal and equitable remedies as are afforded to ESRI.

No Implied Waivers: No failure or delay by ESRI and/or its licensor(s) in
enforcing any right or remedy under this Agreement shall be construed as a
waiver of any future or other exercise of such right or remedy by ESRI
and/or its licensor(s).

Order for Precedence: Any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and
any FAR, DFAR, Purchase Order, or other terms shall be resolved in favor of
the terms expressed in this Agreement, subject to the Government's minimum
rights unless agreed otherwise.

U.S. Government Restricted/Limited Rights: Use, duplication, and disclosure
by the U.S. Government are subject to restrictions as set forth in FAR
52.227-14 Alternate III (g)(3) (JUN 1987), FAR 52.227-19 (JUN 1987),
and/or FAR 12.211/12.212 [Commercial Technical Data/Computer Software],
and DFARS 252.227-7015 (NOV 1995) [Technical Data] and/or DFARS 227.7202
[Computer Software], as applicable. Contractor/Manufacturer is
Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc., 380 New York Street,
Redlands, CA 92373-8100 USA.

Export Regulation: Licensee acknowledges that this Agreement and the
performance thereof are subject to compliance with any and all applicable
United States laws, regulations, or orders relating to the export of data
thereto. Licensee agrees to comply with all laws, regulations, and orders
of the United States in regard to any export of such Technical Data.
Licensee agrees not to disclose or re-export any Technical Data received
under this Agreement in or to any countries for which the United States
Government requires an export license or other supporting documentation at
the time of export or transfer, unless Licensee has obtained prior written
authorization from ESRI and the U.S. Office of Export Control. The
countries restricted at the time of this Agreement are Cuba, Iran, Iraq,
Libya, and North Korea.

Severability: If any provision(s) of this Agreement shall be held to be
invalid, illegal, or unenforceable by a court or other tribunal of
competent jurisdiction, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the
remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.

Governing Law: This Agreement, entered into in the County of San
Bernardino, shall be construed and enforced in accordance with and be
governed by the laws of the United States of America and the State of
California without reference to conflict of laws principles. The parties
hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of the courts of this County
and waive their rights to change venue.

Entire Agreement: The parties agree that this constitutes the sole and
entire agreement of the parties as to the matter set forth herein and
supersedes any previous agreements, understandings, and arrangements
between the parties relating hereto.
